If you've never lived through a disaster, which I hadn't at this point, you didn't
see what was going to come and how long it was going to be and how bad things could get.
And that's quite a, in hindsight, kind of view that things deteriorated.
And this was the big thing about the Sea Empress that I wanted to express in my memories of
the history of the Sea Empress was that from a present point of view, you were living day
to day thinking things will get better and things only got worse.
So as the team of the Wildlife Trust got together, phones were starting to ring off the hook.
We were recognizing what was it that was going to be impacted.
Once the story started unrolling, it was releasing oil into the environment, the marine environment.
Anything could happen. So it was again trying to recognize is it going to be
impacted towards Skullman, Skullcombe and Ramsey? Is it going to hit the coastline?
Is it going to go up the Haven, which we had nature reserves up the further up the Haven?
Is it going to, you know, what is it, what's present? One of my roles was to actually go out
into the field and visually try and see what was happening, but also to meet down when they were
doing press releases. So they set up in Milford Haven a press room and it was on the Port Authority,
one of their buildings, and they were starting to release information there that you could go
down there and find out. But we were also preparing information to try and highlight
why is this important from a wildlife perspective. In the midst of all of this, you had the tourism
industry saying, please don't talk about this. Do not say bad things about our area. Their phones,
they said to me, because I was on the tourism board at the time, they said the phones have
stopped ringing. We have no clients whatsoever there. Why would they want to come here now?
Because all they see is oil on the television and you're helping to promote that.
And I said to them at that time, look, I said this is our only opportunity to highlight
something as important as an oil spill that has occurred. It's not going away. It's here.
I think the impact for me was as you spend years protecting an environment or environments,
because you were talking woodlands and meadows, and suddenly something completely out of your control
occurs, you realize that you failed. And so there was a sense of failure occurring. What could we
have done better? It was just really sad that you can spend years trying to protect something,
and then something like this occurs. I think because we were an on-the-ground environmental
group, different from other organizations that came in from the outside that were involved in
the environment, and they have their voice, and they have their members. We're talking
millions of members. We're not decrying them. Their voice is as the point is, is that we have
to live here on a day-to-day basis. We need to understand how people survive here in a very
pristine but very rural area.